I spoke to Jehovah just before I stepped out here and I asked him,
please, don't abandon me.
If I've ever needed you, I need you now.
Why? Well, it's because of all of these beautiful sheep
that I have the privilege to speak to for 19 minutes.
So I want to make the most of these 19 minutes because sometimes
we have to make adjustments.
Now, you may have heard of a few adjustments in our
understanding of things already today.
And there could be more adjustments that will have to be made
later on.
Now, you may recall that we used to think a certain way
some 10 years ago about the following matter.
We felt that some of the anointed would survive Armageddon
and move right on into the paradise with the other sheep
and maybe stay there for a given time and then be brought to
life in heaven.
But as we understand it, some things that Jehovah will
not permit us to see even though we read over it many, many
times, we can't see it until Jehovah puts the light on it.
And what I'm about to reveal to you today, Jehovah is
behind it, not the governing body, not any human here on the
earth, but Jehovah God.
He helps us to see things.
Now, you may recall Matthew chapter 24 verses 29 through 31.
You've read it many times, I have to, but notice what it
says, even though we felt a little different earlier on
when we read it, verse 29, immediately after the
tribulation of those days.
Now remember this, immediately after the tribulation of those
days, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give
it slight and the stars will fall from heaven and the powers
of the heavens will be shaken.
Then the sign of the sun of man will appear in heaven and all
the tribes of the earth will beat themselves in grief.
And they will see the sun of man coming on the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory.
And he will send out his angels with a great trumpet sound.
Now note the following.
And they will gather his chosen ones together from the
four winds from one extremity of the heavens to the other
extremity.
Now do you see the point?
We understand now that all of Christ's anointed brothers will
be in heaven with him before Armageddon starts.
But that's the understanding that we have today.
And this is exciting.
We think so because of a few reasons.
And here are a few.
But a few of the other sheep.
Have expressed a concern on this subject.
They have said that does this new understanding mean
that we will lose all the anointed Christians,
including the governing body, just when we need them the most?
Will we feel abandoned in our time and need?
Well, let me reassure you that you will not be abandoned.
And that's what this talk is all about.
You need not to think that you will be abandoned
because of the anointed not being in your midst any longer.
So we're going to discuss three questions.
And here they are if you're writing things down.
Number one, what will not happen when the last of the anointed
leaves the earthly scene?
And number two, how do we know that such things will not happen?
What will happen?
So we're going to look at these questions.
First, then what will not happen?
Well, I'd like to tell you very briefly two sad stories
to illustrate what will not happen.
Now, here's sad story number one.
Do you remember Jehovah Da?
He was a faithful high priest, one of the best.
When he died, he was given an unusual honor.
He was buried with the kings.
During his life, he protected the young king, Jehoes,
and helped him to be a good king who stayed faithful to Jehovah.
But when old Jehovah Da died, the young king soon went bad.
He listened to wicked princes, and he turned away from Jehovah.
That's sad story number one.
On his heels, we have sad story number two.
Remember that the apostle John took great joy in his spiritual children.
He was a good influence on them.
He helped many Christians to remain faithful.
But what happened when John died?
Well, he was the sole surviving apostle.
The last restraint against apostasy.
So after John passed off the scene, he was not.
It was not long before something happened.
What was it?
What happened when John died?
Well, the last restraint against apostasy.
He was the last restraint.
And now he's gone.
So after John passed off the earthly scene,
it was not long before apostasy spreads like wildfire.
And within a few decades,
the Christian congregation went off into captivity in Babylon of the Great,
the world empire of false religion.
Now, why mention those sad stories?
Well, here's the reason some may wonder.
In our midst today, Christian congregation,
what's going to happen when all the enlightened are taken to heaven?
Will the great crowd be left in the lurch?
Will they stray into some kind of trouble?
Maybe even apostasy?
Well, what do you think?
Have you heard any signs of that already?
Well, here's the answer.
No, they're not going to stray into apostasy.
Absolutely not.
Those Bible accounts actually teach us what will not happen.
And that brings us to the second question.
How do we know that such things will not happen?
The answer has a lot to do with when we live.
We do not live in ancient Israel.
I don't see anyone dressed like an Israelite.
None of you brothers wear skirts.
Oh, there's one in all there's none.
So we didn't live in ancient Israel.
Well, now you may wonder, why does that matter?
Because that nation was heading for trouble from its early days.
In Deuteronomy, chapter 31, verse 29.
Moses uttered this inspired prophecy about those rebellious people.
This is what it re-hout reads.
I will know that after my death, you will surely act wickedly
and turn aside from the way about which I have commanded you.
Now Moses' words came true many times, not just once.
Finally, Jehovah had to cast off those wicked people.
So when King Jehovah went bad,
he was just acting like many other kings of Judah and Israel.
Today things are different among God's people.
Keep in mind we do not live at the end of the first century CE.
Now why does that matter?
Remember in Matthew 13, when his illustration of the wheat and the weeds,
Jesus had foretold that a great apostasy would take place.
In 2 Thessalonians, chapter 2, Paul confirmed that Jesus' prophecy
was already beginning to come true in the first century.
Peter and John verified the same in their writings.
In the 2ndth century CE, the Christian congregation was corrected
and went off into spiritual captivity to Babylon the Great.
So Jesus' inspired prophecy was fulfilled.
It came true.
However today things are very different among God's people,
much different.
At what time are we living?
Well, we said not back then.
Well, you know the answer to that.
We're blessed to be living in a special time period.
And this began far back as 1914.
It's more than just the last days of this old system of things.
Well, why is that?
Notice what the Bible says, Acts chapter 3, verse 21.
It says it's also called the times of restoration of all things.
Now let the word restoration linger in your mind.
Why does that matter?
We're living in a times of restoration of all things.
Because pure worship has been restored.
We're bathing in it.
And the worship of Jehovah will never be corrupted ever again
for all eternity.
Now that is something to swallow that's tasty indeed.
Now let's read Isaiah 54, 17 together.
Jehovah made this long range prophecy through Isaiah.
Now this is what it says.
No weapon formed against you will have any success.
And you will condemn any tongue that rises up against you in the judgment.
This is the heritage of the servants of Jehovah.
And their righteousness is from me.
Declare Jehovah.
Now think about that, please.
No weapon formed against you will have any success.
The prophecy says that this is our heritage.
Those inspired words are being fulfilled now today.
Nothing can take that away,
not even the God of this system of things,
Satan himself.
Now remember our second question.
How do we know that when the anointed are taken to heaven,
the great crowd won't drift away into trouble?
How do we know that they won't rebel the way Jehovah did
when Jehovah died or drift off into apostasy?
The way the second century Christians did after the last of the apostles died off.
Well, we know it just a matter of turning the page.
And the answer is because we do not live in ancient Israel
and we do not live in the second century CE.
We live in a wonderful time of what?
Restoration when Jehovah has guaranteed us that no weapon formed against us will succeed.
Now our third question.
What will happen when the anointed are taken to heaven?
Well, try to imagine that time.
Give you a second. It's over.
The great tribulation is underway.
Babel on the Great, the world empire,
false religion is destroying first.
Think of it.
Events that God's organization has prepared us for over many decades
are happening before our eyes.
Then comes something else we have been told to expect.
What's that?
Sometime during the Great Tribulation,
and before the war of Armageddon,
the remaining ones of Christ's anointed are taken to heaven.
What do you think will happen next?
Will the great crowd wander about lost and confused
like sheep without a shepherd?
Of course not.
Remember Jesus is the shepherd.
He will never fail to do his job.
Keep in mind that the anointed are not the head of our organization.
Jesus is.
And we hope all parents today raising children will teach them that fact.
With Jehovah's own son in charge, Christ followers here on earth will have nothing to fear.
Of course, we do not know every detail about how Christ will lead his people at that time.
But there are some Bible examples that may reassure us.
For instance, when Moses died before Israel entered the Promised Land,
what happened to God's people?
Well, without that faithful man,
were they left in the lurch?
The answer is no, not at all.
As long as they were Jehovah's people,
Jehovah provided for them.
And he provided richly for them.
They had an abundance.
Before Moses died, Jehovah told him to commission Joshua to lead the people.
Moses had been training Joshua for decades.
In addition, there were many other capable men taking the lead,
chiefs of thousands, 150s, and even tens.
God's people were well cared for.
Thank God for Moses and Joshua.
Another example is that of Elijah.
He had been taking the lead and peer worship among the Israelites for decades.
But the time came for Jehovah to transfer him to a different assignment down south in Judah.
Where faithful people in the Ten Tribe Kingdom of Israel left in the lurch, far from it.
Elijah had been training Elisha for years.
Then there were also the sons of the prophets,
evidently organized into schools of some kind.
We don't know.
So there were many faithful men helping to lead God's people.
Jehovah's purpose kept advancing, and he cared for his faithful people.
Now with those examples in mind, what do you think will happen when they allointed or taken to heaven?
Well, we don't need to wonder.
Open your Bibles and page and look at Hebrews 13.
5B.
It says, for he has said, I will never leave you, and I will never abandon you.
That tells us the simple reassuring truth, Jehovah will never abandon his faithful ones.
Like Moses and Elijah and faithful anointed ones who take the lead today, understand the importance of training others.
That's undergoing.
The governing body has been training men of the other sheep to take the lead for many decades now.
We're familiar with the many schools to train elders and missionaries and traveling overseers and branch personnel.
In addition to that, the governing body has personally been training helpers to the various committees of the governing body.
These faithful men are right now carrying a very heavy load of responsibility.
Believe me, as a member of the governing body, I can say for the rest of us,
we need the helpers that Jehovah has given us.
We pray for them every day.
And they're well prepared to continue in this work, carrying for Christ sheep under the direction of Jesus himself, the head of the congregation.
Now, what is the point, simply this, when the anointed are taken to heaven near the very end of the great tribulation, but before Armageddon,
there will be no interruption of pure worship here on the earth.
Pure worship will keep right on going.
So thank you, Jehovah, for the leadership of Jesus Christ.
None of God's worshipers in heaven are on earth will miss a beat.
Yes, there will be an attack from God of may God, but it will not get very far.
It's going to fail. It will not stop the great crowd from worshiping Jehovah and looking to him to rescue them and what a rescuer he will prove to be.
Now, how we answered a third question? Well, partly.
We know what will happen to the great crowd when the anointed are taken to heaven, but that may still leave us wondering.
What about the anointed?
What will they do after they depart the earthly scene?
We want to know. Well, the Bible answers that directly.
At Revelation 17, we are able to learn in verse 14 that the political elements of this world will foolishly battle with the Lamb.
They will lose, of course. The verse says the Lamb will conquer them.
And who will help him? The verse continues.
Also those with him who are called and chosen and faithful will do so.
Now who are called chosen and faithful?
At that time it will be the resurrected anointed.
So when the anointed are called to heaven, one of the first assignments is to fight.
Yeah. Now that's interesting.
Some of us were fighters before we became through Christians.
Some even served in various branches of the military.
Did receive.
Brother Morris. Some were green berets, not brother Morris.
But then we became Christians. We learned the way of peace and we let go of such warfare.
Figuratively speaking, we pulled the pin on our last hand grenade and tossed it into the air, killing no one or nothing.
Just a loud call. Boom.
But in heaven, we will serve along with Christ and His holy angels, waging the final war against God's enemies.
So if you've ever thought that you might feel left in the lurch after the anointed are taken to heaven, think of this.
Honor, none of us Christians are allowed to fight.
Many of us anointed ones are too old to fight, even if we were allowed to.
But in heaven, we will be mighty spirit creatures fighting alongside our warrior king, Jesus Christ.
Believe me, we can and will do use significant more good in heaven than we ever could as imperfect humans here on this earth.
Well, I'm not done, but I should be.
Ask for the other sheet.
What will you need to do during that climatic time?
Simply this. Hide.
That's right. At Isaiah 26, 20, he wrote, inner your inner rooms and shut your door behind you.
Hide yourself for a brief moment until the wrath has passed by.
It will be hide and seek. You will hide and they will seek to find you, but they will not.
Do you have anything to worry about?
You have nothing to worry about.
Nothing at all.
Because Jehovah will never abandon you.
There is no justifiable reason to worry about the future.
Just be there, brothers and sisters, to enjoy it.
Remember, Jehovah loves you and he will never abandon you.
Please believe it. You will not be disappointed.